DH Paramaters
=============

It is the opinion of the LibreLAMP packager that whenever possible, DHE key
exchange should be avoided and ECDHE key exchange should be used instead.

Some TLS clients do not support ECDHE key exchange, so DHE may still need to be
supported on some servers.

MODP IKE DH Paramaters
----------------------

RFC 3526 defines several Diffie-Hellman groups for the Internet Key Exchange
(IKE) protocol.

The RFC may be retrieved at https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3526.txt

From that RFC, the following DH groups are provided in PEM format:

* `/etc/pki/tls/MODP-IKE-2048-group14.pem`
* `/etc/pki/tls/MODP-IKE-3072-group15.pem`
* `/etc/pki/tls/MODP-IKE-4096-group16.pem`
* `/etc/pki/tls/MODP-IKE-6144-group17.pem`
* `/etc/pki/tls/MODP-IKE-8192-group18.pem`

The `.pem` files were retrieved from https://bettercrypto.org/static/dhparams/

At this point in time it is no longer recommended to use DH groups less than
2048-bit and if you must, they should be uniquely generated and fairly
frequently so. For this reason, the 1536-bit MODP parameters are not included
here.

LibreLAMP DH Parameters
-----------------------

DH parameters < 1024-bit should never be used and are not supported by the
LibreSSL library. They are vulnerable to the logjam attack, see
https://weakdh.org/ for more information.

DH parameters < 2048-bit should not be used but a few TLS clients still in use
do not support DH parameters > 1024-bit. When using a 1024-bit group to satisfy
those clients it is important that they are unique to your server and are
re-generated frequently.

LibreLAMP provides a cron script in `/etc/cron.weekly` that will generate
fresh 1024-bit and 2048-bit groups on a weekly basis, and a cron script in
`/etc/cron.monthly` that will generate fresh 3072-bit and 4096-bit groups on a
monthly basis.

The results of those scripts are placed in the following PEM format files:

* `/etc/pki/tls/dh1024.pem`
* `/etc/pki/tls/dh2048.pem`
* `/etc/pki/tls/dh3072.pem`
* `/etc/pki/tls/dh4096.pem`

The initial group in the `dh1024.pem` file is a group generated by the
LibreLAMP maintainer. It *should* be replaced by a fresh unique group generated
on your server within a week of LibreLAMP install automatically.

The initial group in the `dh2048.pem`, `dh3072.pem`, and `dh4096.pem` files are
the same as the MODP-IKE parameters. The group in the `dh2048.pem` file will be
replaced by a fresh unique group generated on your server within a week of
install, and the groups in the `dh3072.pem` and `dh4096.pem` files should be
replaced by fresh unique groups within a month of install.

Which to Use?
-------------

If you must use a 1024-bit group, the `dh1024.pem` file is the only option.

For 2048-bit, 3072-bit, 4096-bit you have a choice. Some prefer the pre-defined
MODP-IKE parameters as they have likely been reviewed by many eyes, while
others prefer parameters uniquely generated on the server.

It is hypothetically possible unique parameters have a flaw that can be
exploited (e.g. not truly prime and can be factored) but it is very unlikely.

Similarly it is possible an attack has been crafted for the RFC published
DH parameters, though that also is unlikely as it would almost certainly take
more computing power than even the NSA has to develop an attack against the
published 2048-bit group.

My *personal* preference is to use the `dh2048.pem` parameters that are weekly
re-generated on the server when I need to support DHE key exchange. The
rationale I use is that if an attack ever is developed, it provides a moving
target rather than a static target.
